# Pierre Herubel

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2eovlLOHOU4

## Transcript

The LinkedIn hook I'm about to show you generated over 47,000 impressions. I didn't use an infographic or a long carousel or I didn't take 3 hours to write the hook and the post. It was actually really fast and I'm going to show you why this hook performed so well. By the way, I've generated over 50 million impressions on LinkedIn. So, make sure to subscribe to this channel to receive the next videos about LinkedIn [music] content. Now, let me show you the hook. It's here. I create over 40 pieces of content per week. Here are my seven repurposing tactics. As you can see, it's a very simple hook, but it's a good one because it covers the three important principles of a good hook. First, attract the attention in order to make people click on view more. Second, target the audience. And third, be specific enough so we understand [music] what the post is about. So, here they know what it's about. They are curious to know and they know it's for them based on the keywords I've used. So let me deep dive into why this hook performed so well. So the question is why does this text hook perform so well? So first of all it starts from a lived experience. [music] I create over 40 pieces of content per week. Okay, so this is something I'm doing every week and people reading this hook are a bit intrigued because they think how is it possible? 40 pieces of content sounds like a lot and also they feel they want to read because maybe they don't believe me or maybe they really want to know how I do it. But most importantly, as I said, it's because I do it. I don't say here is how to create over 40 pieces of content per week. I say I do it. The second sentence is here are my seven repurposing tactics. So the second sentence will explain how the first one is possible. You see I say I create 40 pieces of content per week and with the second sentence I explain how it's possible with my repurposing tactics. Now something else is that I'm using a hot topic in the hook. I know my industry and I know the repurposing keyword is a hot topic because everyone is interested to do it right now. So when you are writing your hook, look for what we call power words and hot topics. So power words are words that will create an emotion in your audience. A very good one that I've used in the past is the keyword weird because it triggers an emotion. But here I chose to use another type of keywords which is a hot topic. So ask yourself what are the hot topics in your industry and so you will be able to include them in your hooks so you trigger more curiosity and more clicks because remember the goal is to make people click on view more. And you can also see the image that I've used. It's a picture of me with content strategy install a repurposing system to turn one idea into 20 pieces. The next thing I want to tell you about this hook is that it includes [music] numbers. As you can see, there is a number in the first sentence and also in the second one. So the numbers here in the first sentence makes the content specific. I create 40 pieces of content per week. And in the second sentence, it makes it specific but also actionable. Why? Because I know that if I read this post, I will access the seven repurposing tactics. I'm not [music] saying here are my repurposing tactics. I'm saying here are my seven repurposing tactics. And that's a big difference because people want to know what are the seven. Maybe I rank them. Maybe I will say which one is the most important. You see, it creates more curiosity. [music] So what happens after that is that people will click on view more. And here what I do is that I list the different elements directly. Okay? because I don't want to have what I call a deceiving hook where I have this hook and then I'm not sharing the list directly. So I share the tip number one directly. I use the extend repurposing process while everyone else is using the cut process. So you see I jump straight into the meat. There is no introduction, no blah blah, no context. It's just straight to the meat because the hook was here to introduce the content. So I don't need another introduction. And so this is how the post got. 547 reactions, 153 comments including mines, 32 repost, 40 cents on LinkedIn, but most importantly here 457 saves on LinkedIn. It's almost as many as the number of reactions. So you see that with this type of post where you are very actionable, really practical with a strong hook, you make sure that the post feels worth saving. And also this post generated 203 profile visits and also 39 followers. So this is why this hook got over 47,000 impressions. [music] And if you want to create posts like this on LinkedIn but on other platforms as well, make sure to check in the description. I created a course that shows you how to ideulate and write the best content on LinkedIn. [music] So make sure to have a look and I hope I will see you inside the course. Otherwise, make sure to subscribe to this channel and like this video so you make sure that you receive my next YouTube video that will be about LinkedIn content, content in general, and B2B [music] marketing. All right, I will see you in the next
